# Changelog for 6/15/20 - Build 1

* Crashes due to invalid settings files are now resolved (again because I did it wrong last update).
* Default save format settings are now available for crash backups `Settings -> Other`.
* Crash Backups now save in the format `## Crash Backup month.day.year_hours.minutes.filetype`.
* Fixed a issue where autosaves and quicksaves were saved as `## XXXXsave_day.month.year_hours.minutes.filetype`, not `## XXXXsave_month.day.year_hours.minutes.filetype`.
* Updated the changelog to use it's own window.
* Fixed a bug where recordings end 1 frame too early (added a extra frame to every new recording).
* Fixed editing Color Triggers, they now show the correct color after editing.
* You can now drag and drop / open with `.trk`, `.json` and `.sol` files with `linerider.exe` to automatically open them!
* Added a hotkeys to Draw the Debug Grid and Debug Camera (`,` and `.`).
* Custom X and Y Gravity, custom Gravity Well sizes and starting colors are now editable in `Track Properties`.
  * This modifies the save format so **the `.trk` files LRT saves will not be compatible with LRA or other LRA mods past this update if you use the new features**.
  * **However `.json` files saved in LRT will continue to work in LRA or LRA mods regardless** even with the extra features added to the file.
  * Also custom Gravity Well sizes will modify the box Bosh uses to check for collisions, use the Debug Grid to see this change. 
    * The grid is not accurate on the first frame, this is a bug.